Ladies and gentlemen, welcome to the Plain Bagel. I'm your host, Richard Coffin.
We're back with another unscripted, more casual video.
That's likely to be a bit all over the place.
And generally, I tend to focus my content on the stock market because that's where I work.
It's where I have my professional experience and whatnot.
But it's hard to ignore the carnage going on with our neighbor next door,
the cryptocurrency market.
I mean, I've seen the Bitcoin, the sort of poster child of the area, has fallen back
down to the $20,000 level, down roughly 70% from its all-time high.
Either is down roughly 77% from its all-time high.
We've seen certain stable coins lose their peg, meaning that these coins that were supposed to
trade at one U.S. dollar has deviated from that amount, including Terry U.S. D.,
which has completely collapsed and is now trading under a penny.
Luna, the cryptocurrency tied to Terry U.S. D, as well as some very high yielding protocols,
has itself collapsed in lost billions of dollars.
Crypto companies are starting to have troubles with Crypto.com,
the firm that famously hired Matt Damon to tell us that fortune favors are brave,
equating buying cryptocurrency to be nasternaught, while they bravely start to lay off
employees and have reneged on their promises to their investors regarding cashback rates.
Coinbase, the publicly traded crypto exchange, has itself fallen quite drastically and is also
laying off roughly 18% of its employee headcount, and then there's the more recent news around
Celsius. A definitely not a bank that took deposits from some investors and lent them out to others,
and offered very high yields ranging from 9% to 18% which has now frozen assets and locked up
withdrawals, preventing people from accessing billions of dollars worth of their money that they
have with their system, if you will. Now, any long-term viewer probably knows that I'm not the
the biggest crypto enthusiast out there. I've made my thoughts known, I've shared my two cents before,
but the intent of this video is truly not to dog pile in cryptocurrencies now that it's down.
You know, that's not productive. And lo and behold, I don't like seeing people lose their money.
You know, I know that there are obviously annoying crypto bros out there who will come in things
like have fun staying poor, and you know, they're probably not gain all that many tears with the
current downturn, but I know for every one of those, there are hundreds of not thousands of other
investors who are just trying to meet their financial objectives. Well, the reason I want to make
this video is because people, when it comes to giving advice about crypto, haven't learned
their lesson, we're still seeing people say, you know, buy the dip, Bitcoin's at $20,000.
This is the chance of a lifetime to make it big, to be the next 18-year-old Bitcoin billionaire
living in a $2 million flat in San Francisco. I'm still seeing posts of people who said we
would be at $100,000 by now, telling people to go all in to put as much money as they could,
as well as clips like this one. But take all your money by Bitcoin, then take all your time,
figure out how to borrow more money to buy more Bitcoin, then take all your time and figure out
what you can sell to buy Bitcoin. And if you absolutely love the thing that you don't want to sell
it, go mortgage your house and buy Bitcoin with it. And if you've got a business that you love
because your family works for the businesses and your family for 37 years, and you can't bear
to sell it, mortgage it, finance it, and convert the proceeds into the hardest money on earth,
which is Bitcoin. That was Michael Saler, the CEO of MicroStrategy, and it's a clip I saw
shared by Nate Anderson of Hindenburg Research. And while I'm sure this was Hashtag, not financial
advice, it's obviously very damaging and very reckless if you will. And to be up front, this is
actually an older clip. This was from when Bitcoin was around $56,000, but that actually makes it worse
when you really think about it. And so with a lot of people still willing to push not financial advice,
financial advice about cryptocurrencies, despite having no qualifications on that front,
I figured it was time for another party. It's been a while. So we quickly going over why
cryptocurrencies have fallen so much and why they're at this depressed level. And then going and
tackling some of the arguments I've seen that are starting to circulate about cryptocurrencies
and what people should do with their money. I think have a lot of holes with them that I think you should
consider the arguments against these points before you make any decision when it comes to cryptocurrencies.
Let's start with how we got here and why it seems like every platform and cryptocurrency seems
to be falling apart around the same time. With the first point really being that when it comes to
at least yielding platforms or whether it be lending or staking, a lot of these high yields,
that would offer upwards of 10% returns for just depositing money into a system,
they were always unsustainable. Now, some cryptocurrencies and platforms are fully aware
that they couldn't sustain something like a 10 to 18% yield over long term. And in many cases,
it was done just as a promotional rate, if you will. But the problem is that many investors kind of
saw this as being a risk-free and stable source of return that they could just deposit money into
and that would regularly pay them this high-high yield. Which, you know, obviously at 18%
you're performing the stock market, you're performing many asset classes all by simply depositing
money into an account, it was clearly unsustainable and not something that should be relied upon
that was clearly taking risk in some form to earn that high return. And the reason for that is just
the massive discrepancy between these very high yields and the regular yields within traditional
finance. There are certainly going to be people willing to pay 18% for a loan, you know,
people who might not have access to lines of credit or even credit cards or whatever,
who might pay that higher rate. The vast majority of people probably have access to cheaper
forms of financing. And so you have this limited pool of people willing to pay that rate and
arguably a very large pool and growing pool of people willing to earn that rate. So when you have
this, you know, limited demand for these very high interest rate loans or high yielding loans
and you have all this supply, market factors will lead that yield to falling, right? You have
all this supply, all these people demanding 18% but only so much of that 18% actually coming in,
it's going to lead to a lower yield that these people over here can actually earn.
Someone has to be paying that 18%. It doesn't matter whether it's an explicit borrower
who's paying 18% interest on the loan or if it's the investors, you know, whether it be
money taken from the pool of initial investors to pay these high rates to attract more people
for that promotion or whatever or if it's taken from the value of the cryptocurrency because coins
have to be printed, if you will, to pay people these excessively high rates of return. Eventually
that will hurt the value of these cryptocurrencies, right? If you have to create more coins to
pay this excessively high rate, well, you know, a lot of people criticize via currency for that kind
of inflation, it impacts cryptocurrencies as well. Now outside the world of yield farming or whatever
have you, there's also been these macroeconomic factors that have been applying downwards pressure
on cryptocurrency valuations, right? We've covered it in past videos, including the recent
stock market crash video, but one of the core things that's been influencing cryptocurrency prices
is rising interest rates. Just this week, we had the Federal Reserve hike its own interest rate
by 75 basis points as highest jump since 1994. And rising interest rates not only reduce economic
activity, they make debt more expensive, thereby discouraging lending activity, and which can
discourage economic activity as, you know, people face higher expenses and might not be willing to spend
as much. It also can lead to a depressing evaluations of different investment classes, including stocks
and yes, cryptocurrencies. Not to mention that, you know, a lot of people were highlighting how
money supply skyrocketed during the pandemic, which, you know, it did, but you might not know this,
money supply can fall, too. It can contract. And in fact, it has been contracting as interest rates rise,
money supply can fall. Not to say it doesn't matter, not to say money supply still isn't really high,
it's just, you know, I don't think a lot of people knew that money supply could come back down.
And finally, you know, outside of those two things, they're the more idiosyncratic risks, you know,
like fraud, where there have been situations where because it's unregulated because there's
not a whole lot of oversight, there are platforms and there are cryptocurrency, you know, systems,
where money has been misappropriated or, you know, used incorrectly. And investor promises haven't
been met. And so when you combine these factors of, you know, unsustainable practices, economic pressures,
and, you know, instances of fraud, it's led to this growing investor uncertainty and pessimism in the space,
even around cryptocurrencies like Bitcoin, which itself isn't at the center of some of these factors.
Obviously, it's not just cryptocurrencies that are down right now, right? Some of these factors are
macroeconomic, they're affecting the whole of, of pretty much all asset classes that are out there.
Stocks are down quite a bit, the S&B 500 recently entered bear market territory, falling over 20%
from its recent high. So it's not just cryptocurrencies. Because everything is down, a lot of people are
saying that look, this is just a downturn, things will recover over the long term, we've seen it with
the stock market. And obviously, there is a chance a cryptocurrencies do recover and that they,
they go back to their previous highs and, you know, surpass it. But cryptocurrencies are not stocks.
I know, it's obvious when you say it out loud. But it's true. And you can't apply the same strategies
inherently in trust that they'll work from stock market investing to cryptocurrency investing.
It's not to say that there aren't similarities there. Obviously, when it comes to emotion management
and all that stuff, of course, you know, that applies to all investment classes.
But cryptocurrencies are not stocks. Stocks give you a stake in a profit generating business.
Hopefully, if you did your research. And that profit generation gives that stock a sort of intrinsic
value that it will or should normalize to over the long term, right? If you have this company that's
generating $100 million a year in profit, but its price falls to a very depressed level. Well,
over time, if that company keeps producing $100 million a year, its price will, you know, normalize
to reflect that because otherwise, these investors are just making a killing buying at this very
little rate and earning this very high profit generation from this company. Cryptocurrencies don't have
that. They don't have that intrinsic profit generating based, you know, level if you will floor to their
value, that over the long term, it can normalize to. Some people argue that it does have some sort of
intrinsic value tied to its utility. But on that front, that's a lot harder to quantify. And it
hasn't necessarily proven itself on that front. We've actually had perfect use case examples pop up
for cryptocurrency adoption. We've had Russian sanctions. We've had Afghanistan where people have
tried to adopt cryptocurrencies to circumvent the Taliban. We've had El Salvador, which adopted
Bitcoin as its national currency. It shouldn't have because it's down quite a bit, but it did. And
the problem is these adoptions on the one hand ran into problems and some circumstances,
such as with assets still being able to be frozen when they were used on exchanges. Even though,
you know, to be fair true cryptocurrency use can't really be frozen, but a lot of its utilization
in the defy networks can. And they haven't led to that skyrocketing value of these cryptocurrencies,
because even though they have been adopted, the price of these assets had already been speculated
up to a very high level. So yes, Bitcoin and cryptocurrencies might have value based on their utility,
but that utility is very easy to replicate as we've seen with the very many number of cryptocurrencies
out there. There's this massive substitute in the form of traditional finance that offers many
different alternatives. There's a very high learning curve in adoption curve for developing
countries that might not even be able to get past the initial adoption phase. And there's a fact that
the vast majority of people who own a lot of these cryptocurrencies, especially Bitcoin, don't own it
for that utility, appear to peer money transfers, which was the white paper indicated purpose
of Bitcoin. Most people hold it as an investment on the hopes that other people will use it for
that utility and that will increase the value of the Bitcoin you hold without you yourself using it
for that purpose. And if you view the utility of these cryptocurrencies as being a store of value,
obviously it hasn't done a very good job there as well. You know, if I told you that the
US dollar was a store of value, but it fluctuated by 70 percentage points either way,
you would probably say bullshit. Now another thing I've seen a lot of people share is the
tenure price history of Bitcoin to show that the current dip is just a minor contraction on its way
it's trajectory upwards, right? And it's not a bad idea to zoom out. You know, most investors
would agree that as generally speaking a good practice. But 10 years is not really long enough
to determine these sorts of trajectories. You know, if you were to take a 10-year period of
stocks during 1973 to 1983, you would probably come to the conclusion that stocks are terrible
investment because they didn't really do anything during that period of state inflation. And yet,
you know, we know over the very long term that stocks on average return roughly 10% annually.
Not to mention that when you consider the context of that 10-year period when Bitcoin was first
created, it really does show how much of an influence the environment has been on its performance.
Bitcoin has quite literally never existed outside of a very supportive monetary environment.
When the first Bitcoin was created in 2009, it was not long after the federal fund's rate was cut
to zero. And since then, it has only ever existed in the low interest rate environment.
It's not a coincidence that Bitcoin started its rally to its all-time high
within weeks of the federal government announcing its stimulus because of the pandemic.
That's reached this all-time high during a period of unprecedented monetary support in the
form of very low interest rates and quantitative easing. So when we take away these supports,
there's obviously a risk there that Bitcoin won't go back to those levels that we're seeing when
those supports were there. And that's something that a lot of people seem to ignore.
That a lot of people don't mention when they tell you to take out a mortgage and put all your money
into a Bitcoin, either because they don't know about it because they aren't actually an expert on these
things or because they're just too blinded by the greed and by the belief that Bitcoin is the
future and therefore it can only go up from here. Bitcoin might reach $60,000 and go past that
but if you take anything from this video, it's to highlight that it's far from guaranteed.
There are risks with Bitcoin with cryptocurrencies. It is not a stock. It is not a
profit generating business. It is a speculative asset. Anyway, I'm done. I'll stop there before
I go off the rails. If you want to buy cryptocurrency and you want to buy Bitcoin, all the power
to you. The intent is not to discourage people. I just encourage you to A on the one side,
manage your risk exposure. It is a risky asset no matter what people tell you. And most people
don't have the risk tolerance to put their entire retirement savings into a cryptocurrency or into
a set of cryptocurrencies. Just take everything here with a grain of salt. There's a lot of
evangelists that told us that we'd be at 100,000 by now and we're not. Anyway, thank you for
sitting through my rant today. I really do appreciate it. If you are pro cryptocurrencies in Bitcoin,
I'm happy to hear your account arguments down below. The intent here is to have a conversation
debate. To get us closer to the truth, it's not to try and prove people wrong. It's just
to highlight the stuff that I think a lot of people are glazing over or misrepresenting when it
comes to cryptocurrencies. So that you are more aware of the risks around it and so you can make
a more informed and irrational decision. So thank you for joining me today. I hope you're doing
well during these certainly uncertain times. And yeah, I'll always be safe out there.